### 02. No palettes. (credit: Luis Fraguada)

#### Generative colors, procedural colors, emergent colors.

In the work I've been doing so far, I've organically been avoiding colors. Not that I don't like colors, it just seems very daunting.
I feel like shapes and lines already give me such a big playground that I just tend to focus on those and avoid colors, so I don't get lost or distracted.

So this prompt was a great opportunity to force myself to use colors. Fortunately, the prompt explicitly says not to use color palettes, but rather use generative, procedural or emergent colors.
That's great! I get to avoid picking colors yet again. So much winning.

Anyways, colors! My thoughts quite quickly went to the new [CSS colors level 4](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/blog/css-color-module-level-4/) support that rolled into our houses last year through an otherwise quiet browser update.
Among those new CSS color spaces there is [LCH](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/lch), which stands for Luma (CIE Lightness), Chroma (roughly representing the "amount of color") and [Hue](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/hue).
This color space is also particularly interesting because it is designed to be more perceptually uniform than the more commonly used HSL color space.
Which is my AI copilot trying to say that it's a perfect fit for generating palettes. Even more winning.

So that's what I did. Generate two 3-color palettes, a base one and a complementary one, and then use those to create gradients.
Gradients, because of course we need gradients. And some grainy noise, because we need that too.

tags: #genuary #genuary2024 #genuary2
