### 04. Pixels. (credit: Piter Pasma)
#### [Wikipedia: Pixel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pixel)

According to wikipedia:
> In digital imaging, a pixel (abbreviated px), pel, or picture element is the smallest addressable element in a raster image, or the smallest addressable element in a dot matrix display device. In most digital display devices, pixels are the smallest element that can be manipulated through software.

This made me realise that there was a time when pixels were not around. They only became a thing when monitors were invented.

Which made me a bit nostalgic about my childhood and the time I spent playing games while basking in the joyful rays of our very own cathode ray tube.
I'm talking about our TV of course. Back in my young days TVs weren't big and flat. They had small screens that sat in big, way too heavy square boxes.
If you'd get close enough, you'd actually see the *pixels*.

And that's where my inspiration came from for this prompt. I tried to recreate a CRT pixel grid, with each pixel having its red, green and blue element.
Once I had that, I needed something to display on my emulated CRT monitor. 
When I found out that one of the first uses for CRTs was oscilloscopes, it felt like the perfect fit.

When you enable the debug lines, you'll see the pixel grid briefly light up and you can see how I decide which pixels to light up. 
Clicking the refresh button will generate a new color for the sine wave.

Here again I had to see how far I could push paper.js before smoke started coming out of my laptop. I also introduced a check to 
see if visitors are viewing this sketch on mobile and crank down the resolution to try and keep it at least a bit fluid. 

 

tags: #genuary #genuary2024 #genuary4