### 09. ASCII. (credit: Camille Roux)
#### “American Standard Code for Information Interchange”

Aah, ASCII art. Brings back memories of forgotten boxes of 3.5" floppies and the obscure programs on them.
I especially remember being surprised at how well animation kind of worked in this format, when done well.

What intrigued me more for this prompt was the etymology of the term and word. I had actually never looked that up before.
Or maybe I had, but forgot. Either way, I found it entertaining that we, as humans, would even attempt having a single code for all information interchange.
Entertaining, but surely not the most ludicrous thing we've attempted.

When thinking of what I would draw in ASCII, I soon came out at emojis. As in some way, they too are a way of encoding information.
So much so that I have friends that can have entire conversations in emojis. 
And I, use them too. Quite often when I don't really know what to say, but it's obvious what emoji goes with it.

Weird to think emojis weren't a thing not too long ago. And now they're even in the Unicode table.
Is that good or bad? I don't know. It's different I guess. And change is the only constant.

So here we are, trying to make emojis out of ASCII. I've stuck to the characters available in the [original ASCII table (CP437)](https://www.rapidtables.com/code/text/ascii-table.html).
I didn't spend too much time with the character selection. I just picked some that stood out to me.
Since the idea I had, was to have a character for each color channel and overlay these to get a bit more funky shapes.

While I was looking for emojis as images, I came across [this site](https://emoji.aranja.com/), that did just that. Allow me to select an emoji and download it.
They also had me select which _brand_ op emoji I wanted. As in an actual brand, yes. Like Apple, Google, Facebook,...

That made me pause again. Hmm. These emojis are each conveying some kind of information, but the way they actually look to you completely depends on the brand of phone or app you buy and/or use.
That's the reason why in the _final_ version, the displayed emoji cycles through each of these brands. Most of them are quite similar, but e.g. the dog one is quite interesting to notice the differences. 

tags: #genuary #genuary2024 #genuaryX